specs/schemes/upto/scheme_upto_evm.md, before:

# Scheme: `upto` on `EVM`

## Summary

The `upto` scheme on EVM enables usage-based payments where the Client (user) authorizes a **maximum amount**, and the Facilitator (server) settles for the **actual amount used** at the end of the request. This is ideal for variable-cost resources like LLM token generation, bandwidth metering, or time-based access.

This scheme uses the **Permit2** asset transfer method exclusively, leveraging the `permitWitnessTransferFrom` function to allow settling for any amount up to the signed maximum.

| AssetTransferMethod | Use Case                                                        | Notes                                           |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- |
| **Permit2**         | All ERC-20 tokens. Client signs max, server settles actual.     | Uses existing `x402Permit2Proxy` contract.      |

> **Note**: EIP-3009 (`transferWithAuthorization`) is **not supported** for the `upto` scheme because it requires exact amounts at signature time.

---

## Use Cases

- **LLM Token Generation**: Client authorizes up to $5, actual charge based on tokens generated
- **Bandwidth/Data Transfer**: Pay per byte transferred in a single request, up to a cap
- **Dynamic Compute**: Authorize max cost, charge based on actual compute resources consumed

---

## 1. AssetTransferMethod: `Permit2`

This scheme uses the `permitWitnessTransferFrom` from the [canonical **Permit2** contract](#canonical-permit2) combined with the [`x402Permit2Proxy`](#reference-implementation-x402permit2proxy) to enforce receiver address security via the "Witness" pattern.

The `permit.permitted.amount` represents the **maximum** authorized amount, while the actual settlement amount is determined by the server at settlement time.

### Phase 1: One-Time Gas Approval

Permit2 requires the user to approve the [**Permit2 Contract** (Canonical Address)](#canonical-permit2) to spend their tokens. This is a one-time setup. The specification supports three approval methods:

#### Option A: Direct User Approval (Standard)

The user submits a standard on-chain `approve(Permit2)` transaction paying their own gas.

- _Prerequisite:_ User must have Native Gas currency.

#### Option B: Sponsored ERC20 Approval (Extension: [`erc20ApprovalGasSponsoring`](../../extensions/erc20_gas_sponsoring.md))

The Facilitator pays the gas for the approval transaction on the user's behalf.

- _Prerequisite:_ Server supports this extension.
- _Flow:_ Facilitator batches the following transactions: `from.transfer(gas_amount)` -> `ERC20.approve(Permit2)` -> `settle`.

#### Option C: EIP2612 Permit (Extension: [`eip2612GasSponsoring`](../../extensions/eip2612_gas_sponsoring.md))

If the token supports EIP-2612, the user signs a permit authorizing Permit2.

- _Prerequisite:_ Token supports EIP-2612.
- _Flow:_ Facilitator calls `x402Permit2Proxy.settleWithPermit()`

### Phase 2: `PAYMENT-SIGNATURE` Header Payload

The `payload` field must contain:

- `signature`: The signature for `permitWitnessTransferFrom`.
- `permit2Authorization`: Parameters to reconstruct the message.

**Important Logic:** The `permit2Authorization.permitted.amount` represents the **maximum** amount the client is willing to pay. The actual amount charged will be determined at settlement and will be less than or equal to this maximum.

> **Requirement**: The `x402Permit2Proxy` contract will be deployed to the same address across all supported EVM chains using `CREATE2` to ensure consistent behavior and simpler integration.

**Example PaymentRequired (402 Response):**

```json
{
  "x402Version": 2,
  "error": "PAYMENT-SIGNATURE header is required",
  "resource": {
    "url": "https://api.example.com/llm/generate",
    "description": "LLM text generation endpoint",
    "mimeType": "application/json"
  },
  "accepts": [
    {
      "scheme": "upto",
      "network": "eip155:84532",
      "amount": "5000000",
      "asset": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
      "payTo": "0x209693Bc6afc0C5328bA36FaF03C514EF312287C",
      "maxTimeoutSeconds": 300,
      "extra": {
        "name": "USDC",
        "version": "2"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

**Example PaymentPayload (Client Request):**

```json
{
  "x402Version": 2,
  "resource": {
    "url": "https://api.example.com/llm/generate",
    "description": "LLM text generation endpoint",
    "mimeType": "application/json"
  },
  "accepted": {
    "scheme": "upto",
    "network": "eip155:84532",
    "amount": "5000000",
    "asset": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
    "payTo": "0x209693Bc6afc0C5328bA36FaF03C514EF312287C",
    "maxTimeoutSeconds": 300,
    "extra": {
      "name": "USDC",
      "version": "2"
    }
  },
  "payload": {
    "signature": "0x2d6a7588d6acca505cbf0d9a4a227e0c52c6c34008c8e8986a1283259764173608a2ce6496642e377d6da8dbbf5836e9bd15092f9ecab05ded3d6293af148b571c",
    "permit2Authorization": {
      "permitted": {
        "token": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
        "amount": "5000000"
      },
      "from": "0x857b06519E91e3A54538791bDbb0E22373e36b66",
      "spender": "0xx402Permit2ProxyAddress",
      "nonce": "0xf3746613c2d920b5fdabc0856f2aeb2d4f88ee6037b8cc5d04a71a4462f13480",
      "deadline": "1740672154",
      "witness": {
        "to": "0x209693Bc6afc0C5328bA36FaF03C514EF312287C",
        "validAfter": "1740672089",
        "extra": {}
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Phase 3: Verification Logic

The verifier must execute these checks in order:

1.  **Verify** `payload.signature` is valid and recovers to the `permit2Authorization.from`.

    - Note that `extra` must be converted to its ABI encoded version.

2.  **Verify** that the `client` has enabled the Permit2 approval.

    - if ERC20.allowance(from, Permit2_Address) < amount:
      - Check for **Sponsored ERC20 Approval** (Extension): Refers to [`erc20ApprovalGasSponsoring`](../../extensions/erc20_gas_sponsoring.md).
      - Check for **EIP2612 Permit** (Extension): Refers to [`eip2612GasSponsoring`](../../extensions/eip2612_gas_sponsoring.md).
      - **If neither exists:** Return `412 Precondition Failed` (Error Code: `PERMIT2_ALLOWANCE_REQUIRED`). This signals the client that a one-time Direct Approval transaction is required before retrying.

3.  **Verify** the `client` has sufficient balance of the `asset` to cover `amount`.

4.  **Verify** the `permit2Authorization.permitted.amount` equals the `amount` from requirements.

5.  **Verify** the `deadline` (not expired) and `witness.validAfter` (active).

6.  **Verify** the Token and Network match the requirement.

7.  **Simulation:**

    - _Standard:_ Simulate `x402Permit2Proxy.settle` with the full `amount` (worst case).
    - _With "Sponsored ERC20 Approval" (Extension):_ Simulate batch `transfer` -> `approve` -> `settle`.
    - _With "EIP2612 Permit" (Extension):_ Simulate `x402Permit2Proxy.settleWithPermit`.

### Phase 4: Settlement Logic

Settlement is performed by calling the `x402Permit2Proxy` with the **actual amount** to charge.

The server determines the actual amount based on resource consumption during the request (tokens generated, bytes transferred, time elapsed, etc.).

**Settlement Amount Rules:**

- The settled `amount` MUST be `<=` the authorized maximum
- The settled `amount` MAY be `0` (no charge if no usage occurred)
- The settled `amount` is determined by the resource server, not the client

**Settlement Process:**

1.  **Standard Settlement:**
    Call `x402Permit2Proxy.settle(permit, actualAmount, owner, witness, signature)` where `actualAmount <= permit.permitted.amount`.

2.  **With Sponsored ERC20 Approval (Extension):**
    If `erc20ApprovalGasSponsoring` is used, the facilitator must construct a batched transaction that executes the sponsored `ERC20.approve` call strictly before the `x402Permit2Proxy.settle` call.

3.  **With EIP-2612 Permit (Extension):**
    If `eip2612GasSponsoring` is used, call `x402Permit2Proxy.settleWithPermit`.

4.  **Zero Settlement:**
    If the settled `amount = 0`, no on-chain transaction is required. The authorization simply expires unused.

**Example SettlementResponse:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "transaction": "0x1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef",
  "network": "eip155:84532",
  "payer": "0x857b06519E91e3A54538791bDbb0E22373e36b66",
  "amount": "2350000"
}
```

---

## 2. PaymentRequirements Schema

The `upto` scheme uses the following `PaymentRequirements` schema:

| Field Name          | Type     | Required | Description                                                                   |
| ------------------- | -------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `scheme`            | `string` | Required | Must be `"upto"`                                                              |
| `network`           | `string` | Required | Blockchain network identifier in CAIP-2 format (e.g., "eip155:84532")         |
| `amount`            | `string` | Required | Maximum payment amount in atomic token units                                  |
| `asset`             | `string` | Required | Token contract address                                                        |
| `payTo`             | `string` | Required | Recipient wallet address                                                      |
| `maxTimeoutSeconds` | `number` | Required | Maximum time allowed for payment completion                                   |
| `extra`             | `object` | Optional | Scheme-specific additional information (must include `name` and `version`)    |

> **Note**: In the `upto` scheme, the `amount` field represents the **maximum** amount the client authorizes. The actual settled amount may be less than or equal to this value.

---

## 3. SettlementResponse Schema Extension

The `upto` scheme extends the base [`SettlementResponse`](../../x402-specification-v2.md#53-settlementresponse-schema) with the actual settled amount:

| Field Name      | Type      | Required | Description                                                           |
| --------------- | --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `success`       | `boolean` | Required | Indicates whether the payment settlement was successful               |
| `errorReason`   | `string`  | Optional | Error reason if settlement failed (omitted if successful)             |
| `payer`         | `string`  | Optional | Address of the payer's wallet                                         |
| `transaction`   | `string`  | Required | Blockchain transaction hash (empty string if $0 settlement)           |
| `network`       | `string`  | Required | Blockchain network identifier in CAIP-2 format                        |
| `amount`        | `string`  | Required | Actual amount charged in atomic token units (may be 0)                |

---

## 4. Error Codes

The `upto` scheme uses the standard x402 error codes defined in the [x402 specification](../../x402-specification-v2.md#9-error-handling).

### Scheme-Specific Error Code

The `upto` scheme defines one additional error code:

- **`invalid_upto_evm_payload_settlement_exceeds_amount`**: Attempted to settle for more than the authorized `amount`

---

## Annex

### Canonical Permit2

The Canonical Permit2 contract address can be found at [https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/deployments](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/deployments).

### Reference Implementation: `x402Permit2Proxy`

The `upto` scheme uses the same `x402Permit2Proxy` contract defined in the [exact scheme specification](../exact/scheme_exact_evm.md#reference-implementation-x402permit2proxy). The contract's `settle` function accepts an `amount` parameter that can be less than or equal to `permit.permitted.amount`, which enables the variable settlement amounts required by the `upto` scheme.

---

## Security Considerations

1. **Maximum Amount Authorization**: Clients should carefully consider the `amount` they authorize. While servers can only charge up to this amount, clients bear the risk of the full amount being charged.

2. **Server Trust**: The `upto` scheme requires clients to trust that servers will charge fair amounts based on actual usage. Malicious servers could charge up to `amount` regardless of actual usage.

3. **Signature Reuse Prevention**: The Permit2 nonce mechanism prevents signature reuse. Each authorization can only be settled once.

4. **Time Constraints**: Authorizations have explicit valid time windows (`deadline`, `validAfter`) to limit their lifetime and reduce exposure.

5. **Zero Settlement**: Allowing $0 settlements means unused authorizations naturally expire without on-chain transactions, reducing gas costs and blockchain bloat.

Commit message:

docs(upto): clarify phase-dependent amount semantics in PaymentRequirements
The amount field in PaymentRequirements has different semantics at verify vs settle time for the upto scheme. At verification, it represents the max authorized amount. At settlement, it represents the actual amount to settle. This was ambiguous in the spec and is now explicitly documented across scheme_upto.md, scheme_upto_evm.md, and the main x402 v2 spec.

specs/schemes/upto/scheme_upto_evm.md, after:

# Scheme: `upto` on `EVM`

## Summary

The `upto` scheme on EVM enables usage-based payments where the Client (user) authorizes a **maximum amount**, and the Facilitator (server) settles for the **actual amount used** at the end of the request. This is ideal for variable-cost resources like LLM token generation, bandwidth metering, or time-based access.

This scheme uses the **Permit2** asset transfer method exclusively, leveraging the `permitWitnessTransferFrom` function to allow settling for any amount up to the signed maximum.

| AssetTransferMethod | Use Case                                                        | Notes                                           |
| :------------------ | :-------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------- |
| **Permit2**         | All ERC-20 tokens. Client signs max, server settles actual.     | Uses existing `x402Permit2Proxy` contract.      |

> **Note**: EIP-3009 (`transferWithAuthorization`) is **not supported** for the `upto` scheme because it requires exact amounts at signature time.

---

## Use Cases

- **LLM Token Generation**: Client authorizes up to $5, actual charge based on tokens generated
- **Bandwidth/Data Transfer**: Pay per byte transferred in a single request, up to a cap
- **Dynamic Compute**: Authorize max cost, charge based on actual compute resources consumed

---

## 1. AssetTransferMethod: `Permit2`

This scheme uses the `permitWitnessTransferFrom` from the [canonical **Permit2** contract](#canonical-permit2) combined with the [`x402Permit2Proxy`](#reference-implementation-x402permit2proxy) to enforce receiver address security via the "Witness" pattern.

The `permit.permitted.amount` represents the **maximum** authorized amount, while the actual settlement amount is determined by the server at settlement time.

### Phase 1: One-Time Gas Approval

Permit2 requires the user to approve the [**Permit2 Contract** (Canonical Address)](#canonical-permit2) to spend their tokens. This is a one-time setup. The specification supports three approval methods:

#### Option A: Direct User Approval (Standard)

The user submits a standard on-chain `approve(Permit2)` transaction paying their own gas.

- _Prerequisite:_ User must have Native Gas currency.

#### Option B: Sponsored ERC20 Approval (Extension: [`erc20ApprovalGasSponsoring`](../../extensions/erc20_gas_sponsoring.md))

The Facilitator pays the gas for the approval transaction on the user's behalf.

- _Prerequisite:_ Server supports this extension.
- _Flow:_ Facilitator batches the following transactions: `from.transfer(gas_amount)` -> `ERC20.approve(Permit2)` -> `settle`.

#### Option C: EIP2612 Permit (Extension: [`eip2612GasSponsoring`](../../extensions/eip2612_gas_sponsoring.md))

If the token supports EIP-2612, the user signs a permit authorizing Permit2.

- _Prerequisite:_ Token supports EIP-2612.
- _Flow:_ Facilitator calls `x402Permit2Proxy.settleWithPermit()`

### Phase 2: `PAYMENT-SIGNATURE` Header Payload

The `payload` field must contain:

- `signature`: The signature for `permitWitnessTransferFrom`.
- `permit2Authorization`: Parameters to reconstruct the message.

**Important Logic:** The `permit2Authorization.permitted.amount` represents the **maximum** amount the client is willing to pay. The actual amount charged will be determined at settlement and will be less than or equal to this maximum.

> **Requirement**: The `x402Permit2Proxy` contract will be deployed to the same address across all supported EVM chains using `CREATE2` to ensure consistent behavior and simpler integration.

**Example PaymentRequired (402 Response):**

```json
{
  "x402Version": 2,
  "error": "PAYMENT-SIGNATURE header is required",
  "resource": {
    "url": "https://api.example.com/llm/generate",
    "description": "LLM text generation endpoint",
    "mimeType": "application/json"
  },
  "accepts": [
    {
      "scheme": "upto",
      "network": "eip155:84532",
      "amount": "5000000",
      "asset": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
      "payTo": "0x209693Bc6afc0C5328bA36FaF03C514EF312287C",
      "maxTimeoutSeconds": 300,
      "extra": {
        "name": "USDC",
        "version": "2"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

**Example PaymentPayload (Client Request):**

```json
{
  "x402Version": 2,
  "resource": {
    "url": "https://api.example.com/llm/generate",
    "description": "LLM text generation endpoint",
    "mimeType": "application/json"
  },
  "accepted": {
    "scheme": "upto",
    "network": "eip155:84532",
    "amount": "5000000",
    "asset": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
    "payTo": "0x209693Bc6afc0C5328bA36FaF03C514EF312287C",
    "maxTimeoutSeconds": 300,
    "extra": {
      "name": "USDC",
      "version": "2"
    }
  },
  "payload": {
    "signature": "0x2d6a7588d6acca505cbf0d9a4a227e0c52c6c34008c8e8986a1283259764173608a2ce6496642e377d6da8dbbf5836e9bd15092f9ecab05ded3d6293af148b571c",
    "permit2Authorization": {
      "permitted": {
        "token": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
        "amount": "5000000"
      },
      "from": "0x857b06519E91e3A54538791bDbb0E22373e36b66",
      "spender": "0xx402Permit2ProxyAddress",
      "nonce": "0xf3746613c2d920b5fdabc0856f2aeb2d4f88ee6037b8cc5d04a71a4462f13480",
      "deadline": "1740672154",
      "witness": {
        "to": "0x209693Bc6afc0C5328bA36FaF03C514EF312287C",
        "validAfter": "1740672089",
        "extra": {}
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Phase 3: Verification Logic

The verifier must execute these checks in order:

1.  **Verify** `payload.signature` is valid and recovers to the `permit2Authorization.from`.

    - Note that `extra` must be converted to its ABI encoded version.

2.  **Verify** that the `client` has enabled the Permit2 approval.

    - if ERC20.allowance(from, Permit2_Address) < amount:
      - Check for **Sponsored ERC20 Approval** (Extension): Refers to [`erc20ApprovalGasSponsoring`](../../extensions/erc20_gas_sponsoring.md).
      - Check for **EIP2612 Permit** (Extension): Refers to [`eip2612GasSponsoring`](../../extensions/eip2612_gas_sponsoring.md).
      - **If neither exists:** Return `412 Precondition Failed` (Error Code: `PERMIT2_ALLOWANCE_REQUIRED`). This signals the client that a one-time Direct Approval transaction is required before retrying.

3.  **Verify** the `client` has sufficient balance of the `asset` to cover `amount`.

4.  **Verify** the `permit2Authorization.permitted.amount` equals the `amount` from requirements.

5.  **Verify** the `deadline` (not expired) and `witness.validAfter` (active).

6.  **Verify** the Token and Network match the requirement.

7.  **Simulation:**

    - _Standard:_ Simulate `x402Permit2Proxy.settle` with the full `amount` (worst case).
    - _With "Sponsored ERC20 Approval" (Extension):_ Simulate batch `transfer` -> `approve` -> `settle`.
    - _With "EIP2612 Permit" (Extension):_ Simulate `x402Permit2Proxy.settleWithPermit`.

### Phase 4: Settlement Logic

Settlement is performed by calling the `x402Permit2Proxy` with the **actual amount** to charge.

The server determines the actual amount based on resource consumption during the request (tokens generated, bytes transferred, time elapsed, etc.).

**Settlement Amount Rules:**

- The settled `amount` MUST be `<=` the authorized maximum
- The settled `amount` MAY be `0` (no charge if no usage occurred)
- The settled `amount` is determined by the resource server, not the client

**Settlement Process:**

1.  **Standard Settlement:**
    Call `x402Permit2Proxy.settle(permit, actualAmount, owner, witness, signature)` where `actualAmount <= permit.permitted.amount`.

2.  **With Sponsored ERC20 Approval (Extension):**
    If `erc20ApprovalGasSponsoring` is used, the facilitator must construct a batched transaction that executes the sponsored `ERC20.approve` call strictly before the `x402Permit2Proxy.settle` call.

3.  **With EIP-2612 Permit (Extension):**
    If `eip2612GasSponsoring` is used, call `x402Permit2Proxy.settleWithPermit`.

4.  **Zero Settlement:**
    If the settled `amount = 0`, no on-chain transaction is required. The authorization simply expires unused.

**Example SettlementResponse:**

```json
{
  "success": true,
  "transaction": "0x1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef1234567890abcdef",
  "network": "eip155:84532",
  "payer": "0x857b06519E91e3A54538791bDbb0E22373e36b66",
  "amount": "2350000"
}
```

---

## 2. PaymentRequirements Schema

The `upto` scheme uses the following `PaymentRequirements` schema:

| Field Name          | Type     | Required | Description                                                                   |
| ------------------- | -------- | -------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `scheme`            | `string` | Required | Must be `"upto"`                                                              |
| `network`           | `string` | Required | Blockchain network identifier in CAIP-2 format (e.g., "eip155:84532")         |
| `amount`            | `string` | Required | Phase-dependent: maximum amount at verification, actual amount at settlement  |
| `asset`             | `string` | Required | Token contract address                                                        |
| `payTo`             | `string` | Required | Recipient wallet address                                                      |
| `maxTimeoutSeconds` | `number` | Required | Maximum time allowed for payment completion                                   |
| `extra`             | `object` | Optional | Scheme-specific additional information (must include `name` and `version`)    |

> **Note**: In the `upto` scheme, the `amount` field of `PaymentRequirements` is phase-dependent for server-to-facilitator communication:
>
> - At _verification_ time, `amount` represents the **maximum** amount the client authorizes.
> - At _settlement_ time, `amount` represents the **actual amount to settle**, which MUST be less than or equal to the previously authorized maximum.
>
> The actual settled amount is communicated by the resource server to the facilitator via the `amount` field in the settlement-time payment requirements. This allows the server to determine the final charge based on actual resource consumption without requiring additional fields or a separate settlement type.

---

## 3. SettlementResponse Schema Extension

The `upto` scheme extends the base [`SettlementResponse`](../../x402-specification-v2.md#53-settlementresponse-schema) with the actual settled amount:

| Field Name      | Type      | Required | Description                                                           |
| --------------- | --------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `success`       | `boolean` | Required | Indicates whether the payment settlement was successful               |
| `errorReason`   | `string`  | Optional | Error reason if settlement failed (omitted if successful)             |
| `payer`         | `string`  | Optional | Address of the payer's wallet                                         |
| `transaction`   | `string`  | Required | Blockchain transaction hash (empty string if $0 settlement)           |
| `network`       | `string`  | Required | Blockchain network identifier in CAIP-2 format                        |
| `amount`        | `string`  | Required | Actual amount charged in atomic token units (may be 0)                |

---

## 4. Error Codes

The `upto` scheme uses the standard x402 error codes defined in the [x402 specification](../../x402-specification-v2.md#9-error-handling).

### Scheme-Specific Error Code

The `upto` scheme defines one additional error code:

- **`invalid_upto_evm_payload_settlement_exceeds_amount`**: Attempted to settle for more than the authorized `amount`

---

## Annex

### Canonical Permit2

The Canonical Permit2 contract address can be found at [https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/deployments](https://docs.uniswap.org/contracts/v4/deployments).

### Reference Implementation: `x402Permit2Proxy`

The `upto` scheme uses the same `x402Permit2Proxy` contract defined in the [exact scheme specification](../exact/scheme_exact_evm.md#reference-implementation-x402permit2proxy). The contract's `settle` function accepts an `amount` parameter that can be less than or equal to `permit.permitted.amount`, which enables the variable settlement amounts required by the `upto` scheme.

---

## Security Considerations

1. **Maximum Amount Authorization**: Clients should carefully consider the `amount` they authorize. While servers can only charge up to this amount, clients bear the risk of the full amount being charged.

2. **Server Trust**: The `upto` scheme requires clients to trust that servers will charge fair amounts based on actual usage. Malicious servers could charge up to `amount` regardless of actual usage.

3. **Signature Reuse Prevention**: The Permit2 nonce mechanism prevents signature reuse. Each authorization can only be settled once.

4. **Time Constraints**: Authorizations have explicit valid time windows (`deadline`, `validAfter`) to limit their lifetime and reduce exposure.

5. **Zero Settlement**: Allowing $0 settlements means unused authorizations naturally expire without on-chain transactions, reducing gas costs and blockchain bloat.
