specs/schemes/exact/scheme_exact_xrpl.md, before:

# Scheme: `exact` on `XRPL`

## Summary

This document specifies the `exact` payment scheme implementation for the XRP Ledger (XRPL) within the x402 protocol v2.

The XRPL `exact` scheme uses a **payer-signed XRPL `Payment` transaction** that transfers a **specific, fixed amount** to the `payTo` address declared by the resource server in `PaymentRequirements`. The signed transaction is transmitted as the scheme-specific `payload` inside a standard x402 `PaymentPayload`.

This approach has two properties aligned with x402 trust-minimization goals:
- The facilitator cannot redirect funds because any mutation of a signed XRPL transaction invalidates its signature.
- The resource server cannot collect more than the amount the payer has signed.

This proposal supports the XRPL public networks:
- Mainnet
- Testnet
- Devnet

This proposal excludes sidechains / parallel networks.

## Network identifier (CAIP-2)

x402 v2 requires network identifiers to use CAIP-2 format `namespace:reference`.

This document proposes:
- XRPL mainnet: `xrpl:0`
- XRPL testnet: `xrpl:1`
- XRPL devnet: `xrpl:2`

This is a proposal value. x402 maintainers may prefer a different CAIP-2 reference convention for XRPL.

References:
- x402 v2 CAIP-2 usage: https://github.com/coinbase/x402/blob/main/specs/x402-specification-v2.md
- CAIP-2 definition: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-2.md

## Asset identifier

Initial scope is restricted to native XRP.

- `asset` MUST be the string literal `XRP`.
- `amount` MUST be a base-10 integer string representing **drops**.

Rationale:
- Direct XRP-to-XRP payments deliver an exact amount deterministically.
- Issued-currency and path-based payments introduce transfer fees, trust line constraints, and partial-payment pitfalls.

## `PaymentRequirements` (XRPL)

The scheme uses the standard x402 v2 `PaymentRequirements` structure and constrains fields as follows.

### Required fields

- `scheme`: MUST be `exact`.
- `network`: MUST be one of `xrpl:0`, `xrpl:1`, or `xrpl:2`.
- `amount`: MUST be a base-10 integer string representing drops.
- `asset`: MUST be `XRP`.
- `payTo`: MUST be a valid XRPL destination address.
- `maxTimeoutSeconds`: REQUIRED by x402 v2.

### XRPL-specific `extra` fields

The following keys are defined inside `PaymentRequirements.extra`.

#### `destinationTag` (optional)

- Type: integer (UInt32)
- If present, the client MUST set `DestinationTag` on the XRPL `Payment` to the same value.

#### `invoiceId` (recommended)

- Type: 256-bit hex string (64 hex characters; case-insensitive)
- If present, the client MUST set `InvoiceID` on the XRPL `Payment` to the same value.

Purpose:
- Provides deterministic request-to-payment correlation.
- Enables replay resistance by permitting a one-time-use policy.

Reference:
- InvoiceID field: https://xrpl.org/payment.html#payment-fields

#### `requireDestinationAccount` (optional; recommended default `true`)

- Type: boolean
- If `true`, verification MUST ensure `Destination` is already funded.

Purpose:
- Prevents payments being interpreted as account creation.

Reference:
- Payment can create accounts: https://xrpl.org/payment.html#creating-accounts

### Example `PaymentRequirements`

```json
{
  "scheme": "exact",
  "network": "xrpl:0",
  "amount": "1000000",
  "asset": "XRP",
  "payTo": "rNnDqkG7y9sZy7LwqQJ3k8q9mWmZJf9ZQW",
  "maxTimeoutSeconds": 60,
  "extra": {
    "destinationTag": 12345,
    "invoiceId": "5F6E0F5E2E2A0F0E5A1B7E1E5A2F6D0B7A7C1D9E6B0A1F2E3D4C5B6A7C8D9E0F",
    "requireDestinationAccount": true
  }
}
```

## PaymentPayload `payload` Field

The `payload` field of the `PaymentPayload` MUST contain the following fields:

- `txBlob`: string
  - A signed XRPL transaction blob encoded as a hex string (as used by XRPL JSON-RPC `submit` under `tx_blob`).

Example `payload`:

```json
{
  "txBlob": "12000022800000002400000001201B00F4240A6140000000000F424068400000000000000C732103ABCD..."
}
```

## XRPL transaction construction

The client MUST construct and sign an XRPL transaction satisfying all of the following.

### Transaction type and semantics

1. `TransactionType` MUST be `Payment`.
2. The payment MUST be a direct XRP-to-XRP payment:
   - Amount MUST be specified as XRP drops (string).
   - `SendMax` MUST be omitted.
   - `Paths` MUST be omitted.
3. The payment MUST NOT be a partial payment:
   - `tfPartialPayment` MUST NOT be set.

References:
- Payment type: https://xrpl.org/payment.html
- Partial payments: https://xrpl.org/payment.html#partial-payments
- Paths: https://xrpl.org/payment.html#paths

### Destination and amount

4. `Destination` MUST equal `PaymentRequirements.payTo`.
5. The XRP amount MUST equal `PaymentRequirements.amount` exactly.

### Correlation fields

6. If `PaymentRequirements.extra.destinationTag` is present, `DestinationTag` MUST match exactly.
7. If `PaymentRequirements.extra.invoiceId` is present, `InvoiceID` MUST match exactly.

### Expiry

8. `LastLedgerSequence` SHOULD be present.
9. If `LastLedgerSequence` is present, it SHOULD constrain the transaction to expire within the `maxTimeoutSeconds` window.

Reference:
- LastLedgerSequence: https://xrpl.org/transaction-common-fields.html

## Verification

Steps to verify a payment for the `exact` scheme on XRPL:

1. Decode the hex-encoded `txBlob` into an XRPL transaction object; reject if parsing fails.
2. Verify `TransactionType == Payment`.
3. Verify the transaction is a direct XRP payment:
   - `SendMax` is absent.
   - `Paths` is absent.
   - Amount is expressed as drops (string).
4. Verify `tfPartialPayment` is not set.
5. Verify `Destination == payTo`.
6. If `destinationTag` is specified in requirements, verify `DestinationTag` matches.
7. If `invoiceId` is specified in requirements, verify `InvoiceID` matches.
8. Verify the XRP amount equals `PaymentRequirements.amount` exactly.
9. Require bounded lifetime:
   - The verifier MUST reject transactions that do not have a finite lifetime.
   - Implementations MAY enforce this by requiring `LastLedgerSequence`.
10. Verify the transaction signature(s) are valid and determine the payer account.
11. If `requireDestinationAccount` is `true`, verify the destination account exists and is funded.

Reference:
- Common fields including signatures: https://xrpl.org/transaction-common-fields.html

## Settlement

Settlement is performed via broadcasting the signed `Payment` transaction to XRPL.

A settler MUST:

1. Submit `txBlob` to XRPL.
2. Wait for a validated ledger result.
3. Consider settlement successful only if the transaction appears in a validated ledger with a success code.

References:
- Transaction results and provisional submit responses: https://xrpl.org/transaction-results.html
- Finality of results: https://xrpl.org/finality-of-results.html

## Appendix

### Notes on initial scope

This proposal intentionally excludes:
- Issued currencies and path payments.
- Any partial payment semantics.
- Sidechains / parallel networks.

The primary reason is to preserve exactness guarantees and keep verification rules deterministic and reviewable.

Commit message:

chore: revise CAIP-2 identifiers and payment requirements
Updated CAIP-2 identifiers for XRPL and removed optional requirement for destination account verification.

specs/schemes/exact/scheme_exact_xrpl.md, after:

# Scheme: `exact` on `XRPL`

## Summary

This document specifies the `exact` payment scheme implementation for the XRP Ledger (XRPL) within the x402 protocol v2.

The XRPL `exact` scheme uses a **payer-signed XRPL `Payment` transaction** that transfers a **specific, fixed amount** to the `payTo` address declared by the resource server in `PaymentRequirements`. The signed transaction is transmitted as the scheme-specific `payload` inside a standard x402 `PaymentPayload`.

This approach has two properties aligned with x402 trust-minimization goals:
- The facilitator cannot redirect funds because any mutation of a signed XRPL transaction invalidates its signature.
- The resource server cannot collect more than the amount the payer has signed.

This proposal supports the XRPL public networks:
- Mainnet
- Testnet
- Devnet

This proposal excludes sidechains / parallel networks.

## Network identifier (CAIP-2)

x402 v2 requires network identifiers to use CAIP-2 format `namespace:reference`.

This document uses the community-adopted CAIP-2 identifiers for XRPL:
- XRPL mainnet: `xrpl:0`
- XRPL testnet: `xrpl:1`
- XRPL devnet: `xrpl:2`

References:
- x402 v2 CAIP-2 usage: https://github.com/coinbase/x402/blob/main/specs/x402-specification-v2.md
- CAIP-2 definition: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-2.md
- XRPL CAIP-2 namespace: https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/namespaces/blob/main/xrpl/caip2.md

## Asset identifier

Initial scope is restricted to native XRP.

- `asset` MUST be the string literal `XRP`.
- `amount` MUST be a base-10 integer string representing **drops**.

Rationale:
- Direct XRP-to-XRP payments deliver an exact amount deterministically.
- Issued-currency and path-based payments introduce transfer fees, trust line constraints, and partial-payment pitfalls.

## `PaymentRequirements` (XRPL)

The scheme uses the standard x402 v2 `PaymentRequirements` structure and constrains fields as follows.

### Required fields

- `scheme`: MUST be `exact`.
- `network`: MUST be one of `xrpl:0`, `xrpl:1`, or `xrpl:2`.
- `amount`: MUST be a base-10 integer string representing drops.
- `asset`: MUST be `XRP`.
- `payTo`: MUST be a valid XRPL destination address.
- `maxTimeoutSeconds`: REQUIRED by x402 v2.

### XRPL-specific `extra` fields

The following keys are defined inside `PaymentRequirements.extra`.

#### `destinationTag` (optional)

- Type: integer (UInt32)
- If present, the client MUST set `DestinationTag` on the XRPL `Payment` to the same value.

#### `invoiceId` (recommended)

- Type: 256-bit hex string (64 hex characters; case-insensitive)
- If present, the client MUST set `InvoiceID` on the XRPL `Payment` to the same value.

Purpose:
- Provides deterministic request-to-payment correlation.
- Enables replay resistance by permitting a one-time-use policy.

Reference:
- InvoiceID field: https://xrpl.org/payment.html#payment-fields

### Example `PaymentRequirements`

```json
{
  "scheme": "exact",
  "network": "xrpl:0",
  "amount": "1000000",
  "asset": "XRP",
  "payTo": "rNnDqkG7y9sZy7LwqQJ3k8q9mWmZJf9ZQW",
  "maxTimeoutSeconds": 60,
  "extra": {
    "destinationTag": 12345,
    "invoiceId": "5F6E0F5E2E2A0F0E5A1B7E1E5A2F6D0B7A7C1D9E6B0A1F2E3D4C5B6A7C8D9E0F"
  }
}
```

## PaymentPayload `payload` Field

The `payload` field of the `PaymentPayload` MUST contain the following fields:

- `txBlob`: string
  - A signed XRPL transaction blob encoded as a hex string (as used by XRPL JSON-RPC `submit` under `tx_blob`).

Example `payload`:

```json
{
  "txBlob": "12000022800000002400000001201B00F4240A6140000000000F424068400000000000000C732103ABCD..."
}
```

## XRPL transaction construction

The client MUST construct and sign an XRPL transaction satisfying all of the following.

### Transaction type and semantics

1. `TransactionType` MUST be `Payment`.
2. The payment MUST be a direct XRP-to-XRP payment:
   - Amount MUST be specified as XRP drops (string).
   - `SendMax` MUST be omitted.
   - `Paths` MUST be omitted.
3. The payment MUST NOT be a partial payment:
   - `tfPartialPayment` MUST NOT be set.

References:
- Payment type: https://xrpl.org/payment.html
- Partial payments: https://xrpl.org/payment.html#partial-payments
- Paths: https://xrpl.org/payment.html#paths

### Destination and amount

4. `Destination` MUST equal `PaymentRequirements.payTo`.
5. The XRP amount MUST equal `PaymentRequirements.amount` exactly.

### Correlation fields

6. If `PaymentRequirements.extra.destinationTag` is present, `DestinationTag` MUST match exactly.
7. If `PaymentRequirements.extra.invoiceId` is present, `InvoiceID` MUST match exactly.

### Expiry

8. `LastLedgerSequence` SHOULD be present.
9. If `LastLedgerSequence` is present, it SHOULD constrain the transaction to expire within the `maxTimeoutSeconds` window.

Reference:
- LastLedgerSequence: https://xrpl.org/transaction-common-fields.html

## Verification

Steps to verify a payment for the `exact` scheme on XRPL:

1. Decode the hex-encoded `txBlob` into an XRPL transaction object; reject if parsing fails.
2. Verify `TransactionType == Payment`.
3. Verify the transaction is a direct XRP payment:
   - `SendMax` is absent.
   - `Paths` is absent.
   - Amount is expressed as drops (string).
4. Verify `tfPartialPayment` is not set.
5. Verify `Destination == payTo`.
6. If `destinationTag` is specified in requirements, verify `DestinationTag` matches.
7. If `invoiceId` is specified in requirements, verify `InvoiceID` matches.
8. Verify the XRP amount equals `PaymentRequirements.amount` exactly.
9. Require bounded lifetime:
   - The verifier MUST reject transactions that do not have a finite lifetime.
   - Implementations MAY enforce this by requiring `LastLedgerSequence`.
10. Verify the transaction signature(s) are valid and determine the payer account.
11. **Verify the destination account exists and is funded:**
    - The verifier MUST confirm that `Destination` corresponds to an existing, funded account on the XRPL network.
    - This prevents unintended account creation via payment.
    - Verification SHOULD be performed against current ledger state or a recent validated ledger.

Reference:
- Common fields including signatures: https://xrpl.org/transaction-common-fields.html

## Settlement

Settlement is performed via broadcasting the signed `Payment` transaction to XRPL.

A settler MUST:

1. Submit `txBlob` to XRPL.
2. Wait for a validated ledger result.
3. Consider settlement successful only if the transaction appears in a validated ledger with a success code.

References:
- Transaction results and provisional submit responses: https://xrpl.org/transaction-results.html
- Finality of results: https://xrpl.org/finality-of-results.html

## Appendix

### Notes on initial scope

This proposal intentionally excludes:
- Issued currencies and path payments.
- Any partial payment semantics.
- Sidechains / parallel networks.

The primary reason is to preserve exactness guarantees and keep verification rules deterministic and reviewable.

### Rationale for requiring destination account existence

The specification mandates that destination accounts must already exist for several reasons:

1. **Prevents unintended account creation**: XRPL payments can create accounts if the amount meets the base reserve requirement (currently 10 XRP). This could lead to unexpected behavior where small micropayments fail or larger payments unintentionally create accounts.

2. **Simplifies verification logic**: Eliminating conditional checks reduces implementation complexity and potential security vulnerabilities from branching paths.

3. **Aligns with server responsibility**: Resource servers accepting payments should maintain funded accounts as part of their operational infrastructure.

4. **Avoids reserve-related edge cases**: Without this requirement, payments below the reserve amount would fail for non-existent accounts, creating confusing error scenarios.

5. **Improves determinism**: Verification behavior is consistent regardless of payment amount, making the system more predictable and easier to audit.
