.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

<!--
Thanks for contributing to x402!
Please fill out the information below to help reviewers understand your changes.

Note: We require commit signing.
See here for instructions: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/about-commit-signature-verification
-->

## Description

<!--
Please provide a clear and concise description of what the changes are, and why they are needed.
Include a link to the issue this PR addresses, if applicable (e.g. "Closes #123").
-->

## Tests

<!--
Please describe the tests you've performed to verify your changes.
Include relevant code samples, unit test cases, or screenshots if applicable.

For TypeScript: Run `pnpm test` from the `/typescript` directory
For Go: Run `go test ./...` from the `/go` directory
-->

## Checklist

- [ ] I have formatted and linted my code
- [ ] All new and existing tests pass
- [ ] My commits are signed (required for merge) -- you may need to rebase if you initially pushed unsigned commits

<!--
For TypeScript: Run `pnpm format && pnpm lint` from `/typescript` and/or `/examples/typescript`
For Go: Run `go fmt ./...` and `go vet ./...` from the `/go` directory
-->

Commit message:

add python to pr template

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

<!--
Thanks for contributing to x402!
Please fill out the information below to help reviewers understand your changes.

Note: We require commit signing.
See here for instructions: https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/managing-commit-signature-verification/about-commit-signature-verification
-->

## Description

<!--
Please provide a clear and concise description of what the changes are, and why they are needed.
Include a link to the issue this PR addresses, if applicable (e.g. "Closes #123").
-->

## Tests

<!--
Please describe the tests you've performed to verify your changes.
Include relevant code samples, unit test cases, or screenshots if applicable.

For TypeScript: Run `pnpm test` from the `/typescript` directory
For Python: Run `uv run pytest` from the `python/x402/` directory
For Go: Run `go test ./...` from the `/go` directory
-->

## Checklist

- [ ] I have formatted and linted my code
- [ ] All new and existing tests pass
- [ ] My commits are signed (required for merge) -- you may need to rebase if you initially pushed unsigned commits

<!--
For TypeScript: Run `pnpm format && pnpm lint` from `/typescript` and/or `/examples/typescript`
For Python: Run `uvx ruff format && uvx ruff check` from the `python/x402/` directory
For Go: Run `go fmt ./...` and `go vet ./...` from the `/go` directory
-->
