README.md, before:

# x402

x402 is an open standard for internet native payments. It aims to support all networks (both crypto & fiat) and forms of value (stablecoins, tokens, fiat).

```typescript
app.use(
  paymentMiddleware(
    {
      "GET /weather": {
        accepts: [...],                 // As many networks / schemes as you want to support
        description: "Weather data",    // what your endpoint does
      },
    },
  ),
);
// That's it! See examples/ for full details
```

<details>
<summary><b>Installation</b></summary>

### Typescript

```shell
# All available reference sdks
npm install @x402/core @x402/evm @x402/svm @x402/axios @x402/fetch @x402/express @x402/hono @x402/next @x402/paywall @x402/extensions

# Minimal Fetch client
npm install @x402/core @x402/evm @x402/svm @x402/fetch

# Minimal express Server
npm install @x402/core @x402/evm @x402/svm @x402/express
```

### Python

```shell
pip install x402
```

### Go

```shell
go get github.com/coinbase/x402/go
```

</details>

## Principles

- **Open standard:** x402 is an open standard, freely accessible and usable by anyone. It will never force reliance on a single party.
- **HTTP / Transport Native:** x402 is meant to seamlessly complement existing data transportation. It should whenever possible not mandate additional requests outside the scope of a typical client / server flow.
- **Network, token, and currency agnostic:** we welcome contributions that add support for new networks (both crypto and fiat), signing standards, or schemes, so long as they meet our acceptance criteria laid out in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md). x402 may extend support to fiat based networks, but will never deprioritize onchain payments in favor of fiat payments.
- **Backwards Compatible:** x402 will not deprecate support for any existing networks unless such removal is deemed necessary for the security of the standard
- **Trust minimizing:** all payment schemes must not allow for the facilitator or resource server to move funds, other than in accordance with client intentions
- **Easy to use:** x402 needs to be 10x better than existing ways to pay on the internet. This means abstracting as many details of crypto as possible away from the client and resource server, and into the facilitator. This means the client/server should not need to think about gas, rpc, etc.

## Ecosystem

The x402 ecosystem is growing! Check out our [ecosystem page](https://x402.org/ecosystem) to see projects building with x402, including:

- Client-side integrations
- Services and endpoints
- Ecosystem infrastructure and tooling
- Learning and community resources

Want to add your project to the ecosystem? See our [demo site README](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/tree/main/typescript/site#adding-your-project-to-the-ecosystem) for detailed instructions on how to submit your project.

**Roadmap:** see [ROADMAP.md](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/blob/main/ROADMAP.md)

**Documentation:** see [docs/](./docs/) for the GitBook documentation source

## Terms:

- `resource`: Something on the internet. This could be a webpage, file server, RPC service, API, any resource on the internet that accepts HTTP / HTTPS requests.
- `client`: An entity wanting to pay for a resource.
- `facilitator`: A server that facilitates verification and execution of payments for one or many networks.
- `resource server`: An HTTP server that provides an API or other resource for a client.

## Technical Goals:

- Permissionless and secure for clients, servers, and facilitators
- Minimal friction to adopt for both client and resource servers
- Minimal integration for the resource server and client (1 line for the server, 1 function for the client)
- Ability to trade off speed of response for guarantee of payment
- Extensible to different payment flows and networks

## Specification

See `specs/` for full documentation of the x402 standard/

### Typical x402 flow

x402 payments typically adhere to the following flow, but servers have a lot of flexibility. See `advanced` folders in `examples/`.
![](./static/flow.png)

The following outlines the flow of a payment using the `x402` protocol. Note that steps (1) and (2) are optional if the client already knows the payment details accepted for a resource.

1. `Client` makes an HTTP request to a `resource server`.

2. `Resource server` responds with a `402 Payment Required` status and a `PaymentRequired` b64 object return as a `PAYMENT-REQUIRED` header.

3. `Client` selects one of the `PaymentRequirements` returned by the server response and creates a `PaymentPayload` based on the `scheme` & `network` of the `PaymentRequirements` they have selected.

4. `Client` sends the HTTP request with the `PAYMENT-SIGNATURE` header containing the `PaymentPayload` to the resource server.

5. `Resource server` verifies the `PaymentPayload` is valid either via local verification or by POSTing the `PaymentPayload` and `PaymentRequirements` to the `/verify` endpoint of a `facilitator`.

6. `Facilitator` performs verification of the object based on the `scheme` and `network` of the `PaymentPayload` and returns a `Verification Response`.

7. If the `Verification Response` is valid, the resource server performs the work to fulfill the request. If the `Verification Response` is invalid, the resource server returns a `402 Payment Required` status and a `Payment Required Response` JSON object in the response body.

8. `Resource server` either settles the payment by interacting with a blockchain directly, or by POSTing the `Payment Payload` and `Payment PaymentRequirements` to the `/settle` endpoint of a `facilitator server`.

9. `Facilitator server` submits the payment to the blockchain based on the `scheme` and `network` of the `Payment Payload`.

10. `Facilitator server` waits for the payment to be confirmed on the blockchain.

11. `Facilitator server` returns a `Payment Execution Response` to the resource server.

12. `Resource server` returns a `200 OK` response to the `Client` with the resource they requested as the body of the HTTP response, and a `PAYMENT-RESPONSE` header containing the `Settlement Response` as Base64 encoded JSON if the payment was executed successfully.

### Schemes

A scheme is a logical way of moving money.

Blockchains allow for a large number of flexible ways to move money. To help facilitate an expanding number of payment use cases, the `x402` protocol is extensible to different ways of settling payments via its `scheme` field.

Each payment scheme may have different operational functionality depending on what actions are necessary to fulfill the payment.
For example `exact`, the first scheme shipping as part of the protocol, would have different behavior than `upto`. `exact` transfers a specific amount (ex: pay $1 to read an article), while a theoretical `upto` would transfer up to an amount, based on the resources consumed during a request (ex: generating tokens from an LLM).

See `specs/schemes` for more details on schemes, and see `specs/schemes/exact/scheme_exact_evm.md` to see the first proposed scheme for exact payment on EVM chains.

### Schemes vs Networks

Because a scheme is a logical way of moving money, the way a scheme is implemented can be different for different blockchains. (ex: the way you need to implement `exact` on Ethereum is very different from the way you need to implement `exact` on Solana).

Clients and facilitators must explicitly support different `(scheme, network)` pairs in order to be able to create proper payloads and verify / settle payments.

Commit message:

docs: Add awesome-x402 community resource to README

README.md, after:

# x402

x402 is an open standard for internet native payments. It aims to support all networks (both crypto & fiat) and forms of value (stablecoins, tokens, fiat).

```typescript
app.use(
  paymentMiddleware(
    {
      "GET /weather": {
        accepts: [...],                 // As many networks / schemes as you want to support
        description: "Weather data",    // what your endpoint does
      },
    },
  ),
);
// That's it! See examples/ for full details
```

<details>
<summary><b>Installation</b></summary>

### Typescript

```shell
# All available reference sdks
npm install @x402/core @x402/evm @x402/svm @x402/axios @x402/fetch @x402/express @x402/hono @x402/next @x402/paywall @x402/extensions

# Minimal Fetch client
npm install @x402/core @x402/evm @x402/svm @x402/fetch

# Minimal express Server
npm install @x402/core @x402/evm @x402/svm @x402/express
```

### Python

```shell
pip install x402
```

### Go

```shell
go get github.com/coinbase/x402/go
```

</details>

## Principles

- **Open standard:** x402 is an open standard, freely accessible and usable by anyone. It will never force reliance on a single party.
- **HTTP / Transport Native:** x402 is meant to seamlessly complement existing data transportation. It should whenever possible not mandate additional requests outside the scope of a typical client / server flow.
- **Network, token, and currency agnostic:** we welcome contributions that add support for new networks (both crypto and fiat), signing standards, or schemes, so long as they meet our acceptance criteria laid out in [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md). x402 may extend support to fiat based networks, but will never deprioritize onchain payments in favor of fiat payments.
- **Backwards Compatible:** x402 will not deprecate support for any existing networks unless such removal is deemed necessary for the security of the standard
- **Trust minimizing:** all payment schemes must not allow for the facilitator or resource server to move funds, other than in accordance with client intentions
- **Easy to use:** x402 needs to be 10x better than existing ways to pay on the internet. This means abstracting as many details of crypto as possible away from the client and resource server, and into the facilitator. This means the client/server should not need to think about gas, rpc, etc.

## Ecosystem

The x402 ecosystem is growing! Check out our [ecosystem page](https://x402.org/ecosystem) to see projects building with x402, including:

- Client-side integrations
- Services and endpoints
- Ecosystem infrastructure and tooling
- Learning and community resources
- [awesome-x402](https://github.com/xpaysh/awesome-x402) — A community-maintained curated list of x402 projects, tools, libraries, and resources

Want to add your project to the ecosystem? See our [demo site README](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/tree/main/typescript/site#adding-your-project-to-the-ecosystem) for detailed instructions on how to submit your project.

**Roadmap:** see [ROADMAP.md](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/blob/main/ROADMAP.md)

**Documentation:** see [docs/](./docs/) for the GitBook documentation source

## Terms:

- `resource`: Something on the internet. This could be a webpage, file server, RPC service, API, any resource on the internet that accepts HTTP / HTTPS requests.
- `client`: An entity wanting to pay for a resource.
- `facilitator`: A server that facilitates verification and execution of payments for one or many networks.
- `resource server`: An HTTP server that provides an API or other resource for a client.

## Technical Goals:

- Permissionless and secure for clients, servers, and facilitators
- Minimal friction to adopt for both client and resource servers
- Minimal integration for the resource server and client (1 line for the server, 1 function for the client)
- Ability to trade off speed of response for guarantee of payment
- Extensible to different payment flows and networks

## Specification

See `specs/` for full documentation of the x402 standard/

### Typical x402 flow

x402 payments typically adhere to the following flow, but servers have a lot of flexibility. See `advanced` folders in `examples/`.
![](./static/flow.png)

The following outlines the flow of a payment using the `x402` protocol. Note that steps (1) and (2) are optional if the client already knows the payment details accepted for a resource.

1. `Client` makes an HTTP request to a `resource server`.

2. `Resource server` responds with a `402 Payment Required` status and a `PaymentRequired` b64 object return as a `PAYMENT-REQUIRED` header.

3. `Client` selects one of the `PaymentRequirements` returned by the server response and creates a `PaymentPayload` based on the `scheme` & `network` of the `PaymentRequirements` they have selected.

4. `Client` sends the HTTP request with the `PAYMENT-SIGNATURE` header containing the `PaymentPayload` to the resource server.

5. `Resource server` verifies the `PaymentPayload` is valid either via local verification or by POSTing the `PaymentPayload` and `PaymentRequirements` to the `/verify` endpoint of a `facilitator`.

6. `Facilitator` performs verification of the object based on the `scheme` and `network` of the `PaymentPayload` and returns a `Verification Response`.

7. If the `Verification Response` is valid, the resource server performs the work to fulfill the request. If the `Verification Response` is invalid, the resource server returns a `402 Payment Required` status and a `Payment Required Response` JSON object in the response body.

8. `Resource server` either settles the payment by interacting with a blockchain directly, or by POSTing the `Payment Payload` and `Payment PaymentRequirements` to the `/settle` endpoint of a `facilitator server`.

9. `Facilitator server` submits the payment to the blockchain based on the `scheme` and `network` of the `Payment Payload`.

10. `Facilitator server` waits for the payment to be confirmed on the blockchain.

11. `Facilitator server` returns a `Payment Execution Response` to the resource server.

12. `Resource server` returns a `200 OK` response to the `Client` with the resource they requested as the body of the HTTP response, and a `PAYMENT-RESPONSE` header containing the `Settlement Response` as Base64 encoded JSON if the payment was executed successfully.

### Schemes

A scheme is a logical way of moving money.

Blockchains allow for a large number of flexible ways to move money. To help facilitate an expanding number of payment use cases, the `x402` protocol is extensible to different ways of settling payments via its `scheme` field.

Each payment scheme may have different operational functionality depending on what actions are necessary to fulfill the payment.
For example `exact`, the first scheme shipping as part of the protocol, would have different behavior than `upto`. `exact` transfers a specific amount (ex: pay $1 to read an article), while a theoretical `upto` would transfer up to an amount, based on the resources consumed during a request (ex: generating tokens from an LLM).

See `specs/schemes` for more details on schemes, and see `specs/schemes/exact/scheme_exact_evm.md` to see the first proposed scheme for exact payment on EVM chains.

### Schemes vs Networks

Because a scheme is a logical way of moving money, the way a scheme is implemented can be different for different blockchains. (ex: the way you need to implement `exact` on Ethereum is very different from the way you need to implement `exact` on Solana).

Clients and facilitators must explicitly support different `(scheme, network)` pairs in order to be able to create proper payloads and verify / settle payments.
