examples/typescript/facilitators/svm/express/README.md, before:

# x402 Facilitator Example

This is an example implementation of an x402 facilitator service that handles payment verification and settlement for the x402 payment protocol. This implementation is for learning purposes and demonstrates how to build a facilitator service.

For production use, we recommend using:
- Testnet: https://x402.org/facilitator
- Production: https://api.cdp.coinbase.com/platform/v2/x402

## Overview

The facilitator provides two main endpoints:
- `/verify`: Verifies x402 payment payloads
- `/settle`: Settles x402 payments by signing and broadcasting transactions

This example demonstrates how to:
1. Set up a basic Express server to handle x402 payment verification and settlement
2. Integrate with the x402 protocol's verification and settlement functions
3. Handle payment payload validation and error cases

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v20+ (install via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm))
- pnpm v10 (install via [pnpm.io/installation](https://pnpm.io/installation))
- A valid Ethereum private key for Base Sepolia
- Base Sepolia testnet ETH for transaction fees

## Setup

1. Install and build all packages from the typescript examples root:
```bash
cd ..
pnpm install
pnpm build
cd facilitator
```

2. Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
```env
PRIVATE_KEY=0xYourPrivateKey
NETWORK="solana-devnet or solana-mainnet"
```

3. Start the server:
```bash
pnpm dev
```

The server will start on http://localhost:3000

## API Endpoints

### GET /verify
Returns information about the verify endpoint.

### POST /verify
Verifies an x402 payment payload.

Request body:
```typescript
{
  payload: string;  // x402 payment payload
  details: PaymentRequirements;  // Payment requirements
}
```

### GET /settle
Returns information about the settle endpoint.

### POST /settle
Settles an x402 payment by signing and broadcasting the transaction.

Request body:
```typescript
{
  payload: string;  // x402 payment payload
  details: PaymentRequirements;  // Payment requirements
}
```

## Learning Resources

This example is designed to help you understand how x402 facilitators work. For more information about the x402 protocol and its implementation, visit:
- [x402 Protocol Documentation](https://x402.org)
- [Coinbase Developer Platform](https://www.coinbase.com/developer-platform)

Commit message:

fix: polishing up code for pull request

examples/typescript/facilitators/svm/express/README.md, after:

# x402 Facilitator Example

This is an example implementation of an x402 facilitator service that handles payment verification and settlement for the x402 payment protocol. This implementation is for learning purposes and demonstrates how to build a facilitator service.

For production use, we recommend using:
- Testnet: TODO
- Production: TODO

## Overview

The facilitator provides two main endpoints:
- `/verify`: Verifies x402 payment payloads
- `/settle`: Settles x402 payments by signing and broadcasting transactions

This example demonstrates how to:
1. Set up a basic Express server to handle x402 payment verification and settlement
2. Integrate with the x402 protocol's verification and settlement functions
3. Handle payment payload validation and error cases

## Prerequisites

- Node.js v20+ (install via [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm))
- pnpm v10 (install via [pnpm.io/installation](https://pnpm.io/installation))
- A valid base58 encoded Solana private key for
- SOL or Devnet SOL for transaction fees

## Setup

1. Install and build all packages from the typescript examples root:
```bash
cd ..
pnpm install
pnpm build
cd facilitator
```

2. Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
```env
PRIVATE_KEY=yourbase58encodedprivatekey
NETWORK="solana-devnet or solana-mainnet"
```

3. Start the server:
```bash
pnpm dev
```

The server will start on http://localhost:3000

## API Endpoints

### GET /verify
Returns information about the verify endpoint.

### POST /verify
Verifies an x402 payment payload.

Request body:
```typescript
{
  payload: string;  // x402 payment payload
  details: PaymentRequirements;  // Payment requirements
}
```

### GET /settle
Returns information about the settle endpoint.

### POST /settle
Settles an x402 payment by signing and broadcasting the transaction.

Request body:
```typescript
{
  payload: string;  // x402 payment payload
  details: PaymentRequirements;  // Payment requirements
}
```

### GET /fee-payer
Returns information about the fee-payer endpoint.

### POST /fee-payer
Returns the facilitator's public address that will sponsor the gas fee for the transaction.

Request body:
```typescript
{
  paymentRequirements: PaymentRequirements;  // Payment requirements
}
```

## Learning Resources

This example is designed to help you understand how x402 facilitators work. For more information about the x402 protocol and its implementation, visit:
- [x402 Protocol Documentation](https://x402.org)
- [Coinbase Developer Platform](https://www.coinbase.com/developer-platform)
