examples/python/servers/fastapi/README.md, before:

# x402 FastAPI Example Server

FastAPI server demonstrating how to protect API endpoints with a paywall using the `x402` middleware.

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI
from x402.http.middleware.fastapi import PaymentMiddlewareASGI
from x402.http import HTTPFacilitatorClient, FacilitatorConfig, PaymentOption
from x402.http.types import RouteConfig
from x402.server import x402ResourceServer
from x402.mechanisms.evm.exact import ExactEvmServerScheme

app = FastAPI()

server = x402ResourceServer(HTTPFacilitatorClient(FacilitatorConfig(url=facilitator_url)))
server.register("eip155:84532", ExactEvmServerScheme())

routes = {
    "GET /weather": RouteConfig(
        accepts=[PaymentOption(scheme="exact", price="$0.01", network="eip155:84532", pay_to=address)]
    ),
}
app.add_middleware(PaymentMiddlewareASGI, routes=routes, server=server)

@app.get("/weather")
async def get_weather():
    return {"weather": "sunny", "temperature": 70}
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- uv (install via [docs.astral.sh/uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/))
- Valid EVM address for receiving payments
- URL of a facilitator supporting the desired payment network, see [facilitator list](https://www.x402.org/ecosystem?category=facilitators)

## Setup

1. Copy `.env-local` to `.env`:

```bash
cp .env-local .env
```

2. Fill required environment variables:

- `ADDRESS` - Ethereum address to receive payments
- `FACILITATOR_URL` - Facilitator endpoint URL (optional, defaults to production)

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
uv sync
```

4. Run the server:

```bash
uv run python main.py
```

Server runs at http://localhost:4021

## Example Endpoints

| Endpoint | Payment | Price |
|----------|---------|-------|
| `GET /health` | No | - |
| `GET /weather` | Yes | $0.01 USDC |
| `GET /premium/content` | Yes | $0.01 USDC |

## Response Format

### Payment Required (402)

```
$ curl -i http://localhost:4021/weather

HTTP/1.1 402 Payment Required
content-type: application/json
payment-required: <base64-encoded JSON>

{}
```

The `payment-required` header contains base64-encoded JSON with payment requirements.
Note: `amount` is in atomic units (e.g., 10000 = $0.01 USDC, since USDC has 6 decimals):

```json
{
  "x402Version": 2,
  "error": "Payment required",
  "resource": {
    "url": "http://localhost:4021/weather"
  },
  "accepts": [
    {
      "scheme": "exact",
      "network": "eip155:84532",
      "asset": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
      "amount": "10000",
      "payTo": "0x...",
      "maxTimeoutSeconds": 300,
      "extra": {
        "name": "USDC",
        "version": "2"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Successful Response (200)

After payment is verified, the protected endpoint returns the requested data:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
content-type: application/json

{"report":{"weather":"sunny","temperature":70}}
```

## Extending the Example

```python
routes = {
    "GET /your-endpoint": RouteConfig(
        accepts=[
            PaymentOption(
                scheme="exact",
                price="$0.10",
                network="eip155:84532",
                pay_to=ADDRESS,
            )
        ]
    ),
}

@app.get("/your-endpoint")
async def your_endpoint():
    return {"data": "your response"}
```

## Price Configuration

Two ways to specify price:

```python
# String format (uses default USDC)
price="$0.01"

# AssetAmount object (explicit asset)
price=AssetAmount(
    amount="10000",  # $0.01 USDC (6 decimals)
    asset="0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
    extra={"name": "USDC", "version": "2"},
)
```

## Network Identifiers

Network identifiers use [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-2.md) format:

- `eip155:84532` — Base Sepolia
- `eip155:8453` — Base Mainnet

Commit message:

docs: add test client usage to READMEs

examples/python/servers/fastapi/README.md, after:

# x402 FastAPI Example Server

FastAPI server demonstrating how to protect API endpoints with a paywall using the `x402` middleware.

```python
from fastapi import FastAPI
from x402.http.middleware.fastapi import PaymentMiddlewareASGI
from x402.http import HTTPFacilitatorClient, FacilitatorConfig, PaymentOption
from x402.http.types import RouteConfig
from x402.server import x402ResourceServer
from x402.mechanisms.evm.exact import ExactEvmServerScheme

app = FastAPI()

server = x402ResourceServer(HTTPFacilitatorClient(FacilitatorConfig(url=facilitator_url)))
server.register("eip155:84532", ExactEvmServerScheme())

routes = {
    "GET /weather": RouteConfig(
        accepts=[PaymentOption(scheme="exact", price="$0.01", network="eip155:84532", pay_to=address)]
    ),
}
app.add_middleware(PaymentMiddlewareASGI, routes=routes, server=server)

@app.get("/weather")
async def get_weather():
    return {"weather": "sunny", "temperature": 70}
```

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.10+
- uv (install via [docs.astral.sh/uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/))
- Valid EVM address for receiving payments
- URL of a facilitator supporting the desired payment network, see [facilitator list](https://www.x402.org/ecosystem?category=facilitators)

## Setup

1. Copy `.env-local` to `.env`:

```bash
cp .env-local .env
```

2. Fill required environment variables:

- `ADDRESS` - Ethereum address to receive payments
- `FACILITATOR_URL` - Facilitator endpoint URL (optional, defaults to production)

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
uv sync
```

4. Run the server:

```bash
uv run python main.py
```

Server runs at http://localhost:4021

## Testing with Client

Run the test client to verify payment flow:

```bash
# Set PRIVATE_KEY in .env (wallet with Base Sepolia USDC)
# If you don't have USDC, get it from the faucet:
# https://portal.cdp.coinbase.com/products/faucet
uv run python test_client.py
```

Expected output:
```
Wallet address: 0x...

--- Testing /health (no payment) ---
Status: 200

--- Testing /weather (requires payment) ---
Status: 200

--- Testing /premium/content (requires payment) ---
Status: 200
```

## Example Endpoints

| Endpoint | Payment | Price |
|----------|---------|-------|
| `GET /health` | No | - |
| `GET /weather` | Yes | $0.01 USDC |
| `GET /premium/content` | Yes | $0.01 USDC |

## Response Format

### Payment Required (402)

```
$ curl -i http://localhost:4021/weather

HTTP/1.1 402 Payment Required
content-type: application/json
payment-required: <base64-encoded JSON>

{}
```

The `payment-required` header contains base64-encoded JSON with payment requirements.
Note: `amount` is in atomic units (e.g., 10000 = $0.01 USDC, since USDC has 6 decimals):

```json
{
  "x402Version": 2,
  "error": "Payment required",
  "resource": {
    "url": "http://localhost:4021/weather"
  },
  "accepts": [
    {
      "scheme": "exact",
      "network": "eip155:84532",
      "asset": "0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
      "amount": "10000",
      "payTo": "0x...",
      "maxTimeoutSeconds": 300,
      "extra": {
        "name": "USDC",
        "version": "2"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Successful Response (200)

After payment is verified, the protected endpoint returns the requested data:

```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
content-type: application/json

{"report":{"weather":"sunny","temperature":70}}
```

## Extending the Example

```python
routes = {
    "GET /your-endpoint": RouteConfig(
        accepts=[
            PaymentOption(
                scheme="exact",
                price="$0.10",
                network="eip155:84532",
                pay_to=ADDRESS,
            )
        ]
    ),
}

@app.get("/your-endpoint")
async def your_endpoint():
    return {"data": "your response"}
```

## Price Configuration

Two ways to specify price:

```python
# String format (uses default USDC)
price="$0.01"

# AssetAmount object (explicit asset)
price=AssetAmount(
    amount="10000",  # $0.01 USDC (6 decimals)
    asset="0x036CbD53842c5426634e7929541eC2318f3dCF7e",
    extra={"name": "USDC", "version": "2"},
)
```

## Network Identifiers

Network identifiers use [CAIP-2](https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/main/CAIPs/caip-2.md) format:

- `eip155:84532` — Base Sepolia
- `eip155:8453` — Base Mainnet
