docs/core-concepts/bazaar-discovery-layer.mdx, before:

---
title: "Bazaar (Discovery Layer)"
description: "The x402 Bazaar is the discovery layer for the x402 ecosystem - a machine-readable catalog that helps developers and AI agents find and integrate with x402-compatible API endpoints."
---

Think of it as a search index for payable APIs, enabling the autonomous discovery and consumption of services.

The x402 Bazaar is in early development. While our vision is to build the "Google for agentic endpoints," we're currently more like "Yahoo search" - functional but evolving. Features and APIs may change as we gather feedback and expand capabilities.

### Overview

The Bazaar solves a critical problem in the x402 ecosystem: **discoverability**. Without it, x402-compatible endpoints are like hidden stalls in a vast market. The Bazaar provides:

* **For Buyers (API Consumers)**: Programmatically discover available x402-enabled services, understand their capabilities, pricing, and schemas
* **For Sellers (API Providers)**: Automatic visibility for your x402-enabled services to a global audience of developers and AI agents
* **For AI Agents**: Dynamic service discovery without pre-baked integrations - query, find, pay, and use

### How It Works

The Bazaar currently provides a simple `/list` endpoint that returns all x402-compatible services registered with the CDP facilitator. Services are automatically opted-in when they use the CDP facilitator and enable the bazaar extension, making discovery frictionless for sellers.

**Note:** While a discovery layer is live today for the CDP Facilitator, the spec for the marketplace items is open and part of the x402 scheme, meaning any facilitator can create their own discovery layer.

#### Basic Flow

1. **Discovery**: Clients query the `/list` endpoint to find available services
2. **Selection**: Choose a service based on price, capabilities, and requirements
3. **Execution**: Use x402 to pay for and access the selected service
4. **No Manual Setup**: No API keys, no account creation, just discover and pay

### API Reference

#### List Endpoint

Retrieve all available x402-compatible endpoints:

```bash
GET https://api.cdp.coinbase.com/platform/v2/x402/discovery/resources
```

**Note**: The recommended way to use this endpoint is to use the `useFacilitator` hook as described below.

**Response Schema**

Each endpoint in the list contains the following fields:

```json
{
  "accepts": [
    {
      "asset": "0x833589fCD6eDb6E08f4c7C32D4f71b54bdA02913",
      "description": "",
      "extra": {
        "name": "USD Coin",
        "version": "2"
      },
      "maxAmountRequired": "200",
      "maxTimeoutSeconds": 60,
      "mimeType": "",
      "network": "eip155:8453",
      "outputSchema": {
        "input": {
          "method": "GET",
          "type": "http"
        },
        "output": null
      },
      "payTo": "0xa2477E16dCB42E2AD80f03FE97D7F1a1646cd1c0",
      "resource": "https://api.example.com/x402/weather",
      "scheme": "exact"
    }
  ],
  "lastUpdated": "2025-08-09T01:07:04.005Z",
  "metadata": {},
  "resource": "https://api.example.com/x402/weather",
  "type": "http",
  "x402Version": 2
}
```

### Quickstart for Buyers

See the full example here for [Python](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/tree/main/examples/python/discovery) and [Node.js](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/tree/main/examples/typescript/discovery).

#### Step 1: Discover Available Services

Fetch the list of available x402 services using the facilitator client:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="TypeScript">
    ```typescript
    import { HTTPFacilitatorClient } from "@x402/core/http";
    import { withBazaar } from "@x402/extensions";

    const facilitatorClient = new HTTPFacilitatorClient({
      url: "https://x402.org/facilitator"
    });
    const client = withBazaar(facilitatorClient);

    const response = await client.extensions.discovery.listResources({ type: "http" });

    // Filter services under $0.10
    const usdcAsset = "0x833589fCD6eDb6E08f4c7C32D4f71b54bdA02913";
    const maxPrice = 100000; // $0.10 in USDC atomic units (6 decimals)

    const affordableServices = response.items.filter(item =>
      item.accepts.find(paymentRequirements =>
        paymentRequirements.asset === usdcAsset &&
        Number(paymentRequirements.maxAmountRequired) < maxPrice
      )
    );
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    from x402.http import FacilitatorConfig, HTTPFacilitatorClient

    facilitator = HTTPFacilitatorClient(
        FacilitatorConfig(url="https://api.cdp.coinbase.com/platform/v2/x402")
    )

    response = await facilitator.list_resources(type="http")

    # Filter services under $0.10
    usdc_asset = "0x833589fCD6eDb6E08f4c7C32D4f71b54bdA02913"
    max_price = 100000  # $0.10 in USDC atomic units (6 decimals)

    affordable_services = [
        item
        for item in response.items
        if any(
            payment_req.asset == usdc_asset
            and int(payment_req.max_amount_required) < max_price
            for payment_req in item.accepts
        )
    ]
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

#### Step 2: Call a Discovered Service

Once you've found a suitable service, use an x402 client to call it:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="TypeScript">
    ```typescript
    import { wrapAxiosWithPayment, x402Client } from "@x402/axios";
    import { registerExactEvmScheme } from "@x402/evm/exact/client";
    import axios from "axios";
    import { privateKeyToAccount } from "viem/accounts";

    // Set up your payment account
    const account = privateKeyToAccount("0xYourPrivateKey");
    const client = new x402Client();
    registerExactEvmScheme(client, { signer: account });

    // Select a service from discovery
    const selectedService = affordableServices[0];

    // Create a payment-enabled client for that service
    const api = wrapAxiosWithPayment(
      axios.create({ baseURL: selectedService.resource }),
      client
    );

    // Select the payment method of your choice
    const selectedPaymentRequirements = selectedService.accepts[0];
    const inputSchema = selectedPaymentRequirements.outputSchema.input;

    // Build the request using the service's schema
    const response = await api.request({
      method: inputSchema.method,
      url: inputSchema.resource,
      params: { location: "San Francisco" } // Based on inputSchema
    });

    console.log("Response data:", response.data);
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    import asyncio

    from eth_account import Account

    from x402 import x402Client
    from x402.http.clients import x402HttpxClient
    from x402.mechanisms.evm import EthAccountSigner
    from x402.mechanisms.evm.exact.register import register_exact_evm_client


    async def main() -> None:
        account = Account.from_key("0xYourPrivateKey")
        client = x402Client()
        register_exact_evm_client(client, EthAccountSigner(account))

        # Select a service from discovery (from Step 1)
        selected_service = affordable_services[0]

        # Select the payment method of your choice
        selected_payment_requirements = selected_service.accepts[0]
        input_schema = selected_payment_requirements.output_schema.input

        # Make the request using httpx client
        async with x402HttpxClient(client) as http:
            response = await http.request(
                method=input_schema.method,
                url=input_schema.resource,
                params={"location": "San Francisco"}  # Based on input_schema
            )
            await response.aread()
            print(f"Response data: {response.json()}")


    asyncio.run(main())
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Quickstart for Sellers

#### Automatic Listing with Bazaar Extension

If your API uses the CDP facilitator for x402 payments, it's **automatically listed in the bazaar when you enable the bazaar extension with `discoverable: true`**.

#### Adding Metadata

To enhance your listing with descriptions and schemas, include them when setting up your x402 middleware. **You should include descriptions for each parameter to make it clear for agents to call your endpoints**:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="TypeScript">
    ```typescript
    import { paymentMiddleware } from "@x402/express";
    import { x402ResourceServer, HTTPFacilitatorClient } from "@x402/core/server";
    import { registerExactEvmScheme } from "@x402/evm/exact/server";
    import { bazaarResourceServerExtension } from "@x402/extensions";

    const facilitatorClient = new HTTPFacilitatorClient({
      url: "https://x402.org/facilitator"
    });
    const server = new x402ResourceServer(facilitatorClient);
    registerExactEvmScheme(server);

    const routes = {
      "GET /weather": {
        price: "$0.001",
        network: "eip155:8453",
        resource: "0xYourAddress",
        description: "Get current weather data for any location",
        extensions: {
          bazaar: {
            discoverable: true,
            inputSchema: {
              queryParams: {
                location: {
                  type: "string",
                  description: "City name or coordinates",
                  required: true
                }
              }
            },
            outputSchema: {
              type: "object",
              properties: {
                temperature: { type: "number" },
                conditions: { type: "string" },
                humidity: { type: "number" }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    };

    app.use(paymentMiddleware(routes, server));
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    from fastapi import FastAPI

    from x402.http import FacilitatorConfig, HTTPFacilitatorClient, PaymentOption
    from x402.http.middleware.fastapi import PaymentMiddlewareASGI
    from x402.http.types import RouteConfig
    from x402.mechanisms.evm.exact import ExactEvmServerScheme
    from x402.server import x402ResourceServer

    app = FastAPI()

    # Create facilitator client (CDP mainnet)
    facilitator = HTTPFacilitatorClient(
        FacilitatorConfig(url="https://api.cdp.coinbase.com/platform/v2/x402")
    )

    # Create resource server and register EVM scheme
    server = x402ResourceServer(facilitator)
    server.register("eip155:8453", ExactEvmServerScheme())

    # Define routes with Bazaar discovery metadata
    routes: dict[str, RouteConfig] = {
        "GET /weather": RouteConfig(
            accepts=[
                PaymentOption(
                    scheme="exact",
                    pay_to="0xYourAddress",
                    price="$0.001",
                    network="eip155:8453",
                ),
            ],
            mime_type="application/json",
            description="Get current weather data for any location",
            extensions={
                "bazaar": {
                    "discoverable": True,
                    "inputSchema": {
                        "queryParams": {
                            "location": {
                                "type": "string",
                                "description": "City name or coordinates",
                                "required": True,
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    "outputSchema": {
                        "type": "object",
                        "properties": {
                            "temperature": {"type": "number"},
                            "conditions": {"type": "string"},
                            "humidity": {"type": "number"},
                        },
                    },
                }
            },
        ),
    }

    app.add_middleware(PaymentMiddlewareASGI, routes=routes, server=server)
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Go">
    ```go
    package main

    import (
        x402 "github.com/coinbase/x402/go"
        "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/extensions/bazaar"
        "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/extensions/types"
        x402http "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/http"
        ginmw "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/http/gin"
        evm "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/mechanisms/evm/exact/server"
        "github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
    )

    func main() {
        r := gin.Default()

        facilitatorClient := x402http.NewHTTPFacilitatorClient(&x402http.FacilitatorConfig{
            URL: "https://x402.org/facilitator",
        })

        // Create Bazaar Discovery Extension with input/output schemas
        discoveryExtension, _ := bazaar.DeclareDiscoveryExtension(
            bazaar.MethodGET,
            map[string]interface{}{"location": "San Francisco"},
            types.JSONSchema{
                "properties": map[string]interface{}{
                    "location": map[string]interface{}{
                        "type":        "string",
                        "description": "City name or coordinates",
                    },
                },
                "required": []string{"location"},
            },
            "",
            &types.OutputConfig{
                Schema: types.JSONSchema{
                    "properties": map[string]interface{}{
                        "temperature": map[string]interface{}{"type": "number"},
                        "conditions":  map[string]interface{}{"type": "string"},
                        "humidity":    map[string]interface{}{"type": "number"},
                    },
                },
            },
        )

        routes := x402http.RoutesConfig{
            "GET /weather": {
                Accepts: x402http.PaymentOptions{{
                    Scheme:  "exact",
                    PayTo:   "0xYourAddress",
                    Price:   "$0.001",
                    Network: x402.Network("eip155:8453"),
                }},
                Description: "Get current weather data for any location",
                Extensions: map[string]interface{}{
                    types.BAZAAR: discoveryExtension,
                },
            },
        }

        r.Use(ginmw.X402Payment(ginmw.Config{
            Routes:      routes,
            Facilitator: facilitatorClient,
            Schemes: []ginmw.SchemeConfig{{
                Network: x402.Network("eip155:8453"),
                Server:  evm.NewExactEvmScheme(),
            }},
        }))

        r.GET("/weather", func(c *gin.Context) {
            location := c.DefaultQuery("location", "San Francisco")
            c.JSON(200, gin.H{
                "location":    location,
                "temperature": 70,
                "conditions":  "sunny",
                "humidity":    45,
            })
        })

        r.Run(":4021")
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Coming Soon

The x402 Bazaar is rapidly evolving, and your feedback helps us prioritize features.

### Support

* **GitHub**: [github.com/coinbase/x402](https://github.com/coinbase/x402)
* **Discord**: [Join #x402 channel](https://discord.com/invite/cdp)

### FAQ

**Q: How do I get my service listed?**
A: If you're using the CDP facilitator, your service is listed once you enable the bazaar extension with `discoverable: true`.

**Q: How can I make endpoint calls more accurate?**
A: Include descriptions clearly stating what each parameter does and how to call your endpoint, but do so as succinctly as possible.

**Q: How does pricing work?**
A: Listing is free. Services set their own prices per API call, paid via x402.

**Q: What networks are supported?**
A: Currently Base (`eip155:8453`) and Base Sepolia (`eip155:84532`) with USDC payments.

**Q: Can I list non-x402 services?**
A: No, only x402-compatible endpoints can be listed. See our [Quickstart for Sellers](/getting-started/quickstart-for-sellers) to make your API x402-compatible.

Commit message:

Update Facilitator language and link to ecosystem page (#1013)
* make facilitator mentions neutral

* update language

* update langauge

* Update docs/core-concepts/bazaar-discovery-layer.mdx

Co-authored-by: phdargen <pdargent@icloud.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: phdargen <pdargent@icloud.com>

docs/core-concepts/bazaar-discovery-layer.mdx, after:

---
title: "Bazaar (Discovery Layer)"
description: "The x402 Bazaar is the discovery layer for the x402 ecosystem - a machine-readable catalog that helps developers and AI agents find and integrate with x402-compatible API endpoints."
---

Think of it as a search index for payable APIs, enabling the autonomous discovery and consumption of services.

The x402 Bazaar is in early development. While our vision is to build the "Google for agentic endpoints," we're currently more like "Yahoo search" - functional but evolving. Features and APIs may change as we gather feedback and expand capabilities.

### Overview

The Bazaar solves a critical problem in the x402 ecosystem: **discoverability**. Without it, x402-compatible endpoints are like hidden stalls in a vast market. The Bazaar provides:

* **For Buyers (API Consumers)**: Programmatically discover available x402-enabled services, understand their capabilities, pricing, and schemas
* **For Sellers (API Providers)**: Automatic visibility for your x402-enabled services to a global audience of developers and AI agents
* **For AI Agents**: Dynamic service discovery without pre-baked integrations - query, find, pay, and use

### How It Works

Facilitators that support the Bazaar extension may provide a `/list` endpoint that returns all x402-compatible services registered through the respective facilitator. Services are discoverable when they include the bazaar extension in their route configuration.

**Note:** The spec for marketplace items is open and part of the x402 scheme, meaning any facilitator can implement their own discovery layer.

#### Basic Flow

1. **Discovery**: Clients query the `/list` endpoint to find available services
2. **Selection**: Choose a service based on price, capabilities, and requirements
3. **Execution**: Use x402 to pay for and access the selected service
4. **No Manual Setup**: No API keys, no account creation, just discover and pay

### API Reference

#### List Endpoint

Retrieve all available x402-compatible endpoints:

```bash
GET https://api.cdp.coinbase.com/platform/v2/x402/discovery/resources
```

**Note**: The recommended way to use this endpoint is to use the `useFacilitator` hook as described below.

**Response Schema**

Each endpoint in the list contains the following fields:

```json
{
  "accepts": [
    {
      "asset": "0x833589fCD6eDb6E08f4c7C32D4f71b54bdA02913",
      "description": "",
      "extra": {
        "name": "USD Coin",
        "version": "2"
      },
      "maxAmountRequired": "200",
      "maxTimeoutSeconds": 60,
      "mimeType": "",
      "network": "eip155:8453",
      "outputSchema": {
        "input": {
          "method": "GET",
          "type": "http"
        },
        "output": null
      },
      "payTo": "0xa2477E16dCB42E2AD80f03FE97D7F1a1646cd1c0",
      "resource": "https://api.example.com/x402/weather",
      "scheme": "exact"
    }
  ],
  "lastUpdated": "2025-08-09T01:07:04.005Z",
  "metadata": {},
  "resource": "https://api.example.com/x402/weather",
  "type": "http",
  "x402Version": 2
}
```

### Quickstart for Buyers

See the full example here for [Python](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/tree/main/examples/python/discovery) and [Node.js](https://github.com/coinbase/x402/tree/main/examples/typescript/discovery).

#### Step 1: Discover Available Services

Fetch the list of available x402 services using the facilitator client:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="TypeScript">
    ```typescript
    import { HTTPFacilitatorClient } from "@x402/core/http";
    import { withBazaar } from "@x402/extensions";

    const facilitatorClient = new HTTPFacilitatorClient({
      url: "https://x402.org/facilitator"
    });
    const client = withBazaar(facilitatorClient);

    const response = await client.extensions.discovery.listResources({ type: "http" });

    // Filter services under $0.10
    const usdcAsset = "0x833589fCD6eDb6E08f4c7C32D4f71b54bdA02913";
    const maxPrice = 100000; // $0.10 in USDC atomic units (6 decimals)

    const affordableServices = response.items.filter(item =>
      item.accepts.find(paymentRequirements =>
        paymentRequirements.asset === usdcAsset &&
        Number(paymentRequirements.maxAmountRequired) < maxPrice
      )
    );
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    from x402.http import FacilitatorConfig, HTTPFacilitatorClient

    facilitator = HTTPFacilitatorClient(
        FacilitatorConfig(url="https://api.cdp.coinbase.com/platform/v2/x402")
    )

    response = await facilitator.list_resources(type="http")

    # Filter services under $0.10
    usdc_asset = "0x833589fCD6eDb6E08f4c7C32D4f71b54bdA02913"
    max_price = 100000  # $0.10 in USDC atomic units (6 decimals)

    affordable_services = [
        item
        for item in response.items
        if any(
            payment_req.asset == usdc_asset
            and int(payment_req.max_amount_required) < max_price
            for payment_req in item.accepts
        )
    ]
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

#### Step 2: Call a Discovered Service

Once you've found a suitable service, use an x402 client to call it:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="TypeScript">
    ```typescript
    import { wrapAxiosWithPayment, x402Client } from "@x402/axios";
    import { registerExactEvmScheme } from "@x402/evm/exact/client";
    import axios from "axios";
    import { privateKeyToAccount } from "viem/accounts";

    // Set up your payment account
    const account = privateKeyToAccount("0xYourPrivateKey");
    const client = new x402Client();
    registerExactEvmScheme(client, { signer: account });

    // Select a service from discovery
    const selectedService = affordableServices[0];

    // Create a payment-enabled client for that service
    const api = wrapAxiosWithPayment(
      axios.create({ baseURL: selectedService.resource }),
      client
    );

    // Select the payment method of your choice
    const selectedPaymentRequirements = selectedService.accepts[0];
    const inputSchema = selectedPaymentRequirements.outputSchema.input;

    // Build the request using the service's schema
    const response = await api.request({
      method: inputSchema.method,
      url: inputSchema.resource,
      params: { location: "San Francisco" } // Based on inputSchema
    });

    console.log("Response data:", response.data);
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    import asyncio

    from eth_account import Account

    from x402 import x402Client
    from x402.http.clients import x402HttpxClient
    from x402.mechanisms.evm import EthAccountSigner
    from x402.mechanisms.evm.exact.register import register_exact_evm_client


    async def main() -> None:
        account = Account.from_key("0xYourPrivateKey")
        client = x402Client()
        register_exact_evm_client(client, EthAccountSigner(account))

        # Select a service from discovery (from Step 1)
        selected_service = affordable_services[0]

        # Select the payment method of your choice
        selected_payment_requirements = selected_service.accepts[0]
        input_schema = selected_payment_requirements.output_schema.input

        # Make the request using httpx client
        async with x402HttpxClient(client) as http:
            response = await http.request(
                method=input_schema.method,
                url=input_schema.resource,
                params={"location": "San Francisco"}  # Based on input_schema
            )
            await response.aread()
            print(f"Response data: {response.json()}")


    asyncio.run(main())
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Quickstart for Sellers

#### Listing with Bazaar Extension

Add the bazaar extension to your route configuration to make your API discoverable.

#### Adding Metadata

To enhance your listing with descriptions and schemas, include them when setting up your x402 middleware. **You should include descriptions for each parameter to make it clear for agents to call your endpoints**:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="TypeScript">
    ```typescript
    import { paymentMiddleware } from "@x402/express";
    import { x402ResourceServer, HTTPFacilitatorClient } from "@x402/core/server";
    import { registerExactEvmScheme } from "@x402/evm/exact/server";
    import { bazaarResourceServerExtension } from "@x402/extensions";

    const facilitatorClient = new HTTPFacilitatorClient({
      url: "https://x402.org/facilitator"
    });
    const server = new x402ResourceServer(facilitatorClient);
    registerExactEvmScheme(server);

    const routes = {
      "GET /weather": {
        price: "$0.001",
        network: "eip155:8453",
        resource: "0xYourAddress",
        description: "Get current weather data for any location",
        extensions: {
          bazaar: {
            discoverable: true,
            inputSchema: {
              queryParams: {
                location: {
                  type: "string",
                  description: "City name or coordinates",
                  required: true
                }
              }
            },
            outputSchema: {
              type: "object",
              properties: {
                temperature: { type: "number" },
                conditions: { type: "string" },
                humidity: { type: "number" }
              }
            }
          }
        }
      }
    };

    app.use(paymentMiddleware(routes, server));
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Python">
    ```python
    from fastapi import FastAPI

    from x402.http import FacilitatorConfig, HTTPFacilitatorClient, PaymentOption
    from x402.http.middleware.fastapi import PaymentMiddlewareASGI
    from x402.http.types import RouteConfig
    from x402.mechanisms.evm.exact import ExactEvmServerScheme
    from x402.server import x402ResourceServer

    app = FastAPI()

    # Create facilitator client (CDP mainnet)
    facilitator = HTTPFacilitatorClient(
        FacilitatorConfig(url="https://api.cdp.coinbase.com/platform/v2/x402")
    )

    # Create resource server and register EVM scheme
    server = x402ResourceServer(facilitator)
    server.register("eip155:8453", ExactEvmServerScheme())

    # Define routes with Bazaar discovery metadata
    routes: dict[str, RouteConfig] = {
        "GET /weather": RouteConfig(
            accepts=[
                PaymentOption(
                    scheme="exact",
                    pay_to="0xYourAddress",
                    price="$0.001",
                    network="eip155:8453",
                ),
            ],
            mime_type="application/json",
            description="Get current weather data for any location",
            extensions={
                "bazaar": {
                    "discoverable": True,
                    "inputSchema": {
                        "queryParams": {
                            "location": {
                                "type": "string",
                                "description": "City name or coordinates",
                                "required": True,
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    "outputSchema": {
                        "type": "object",
                        "properties": {
                            "temperature": {"type": "number"},
                            "conditions": {"type": "string"},
                            "humidity": {"type": "number"},
                        },
                    },
                }
            },
        ),
    }

    app.add_middleware(PaymentMiddlewareASGI, routes=routes, server=server)
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Go">
    ```go
    package main

    import (
        x402 "github.com/coinbase/x402/go"
        "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/extensions/bazaar"
        "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/extensions/types"
        x402http "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/http"
        ginmw "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/http/gin"
        evm "github.com/coinbase/x402/go/mechanisms/evm/exact/server"
        "github.com/gin-gonic/gin"
    )

    func main() {
        r := gin.Default()

        facilitatorClient := x402http.NewHTTPFacilitatorClient(&x402http.FacilitatorConfig{
            URL: "https://x402.org/facilitator",
        })

        // Create Bazaar Discovery Extension with input/output schemas
        discoveryExtension, _ := bazaar.DeclareDiscoveryExtension(
            bazaar.MethodGET,
            map[string]interface{}{"location": "San Francisco"},
            types.JSONSchema{
                "properties": map[string]interface{}{
                    "location": map[string]interface{}{
                        "type":        "string",
                        "description": "City name or coordinates",
                    },
                },
                "required": []string{"location"},
            },
            "",
            &types.OutputConfig{
                Schema: types.JSONSchema{
                    "properties": map[string]interface{}{
                        "temperature": map[string]interface{}{"type": "number"},
                        "conditions":  map[string]interface{}{"type": "string"},
                        "humidity":    map[string]interface{}{"type": "number"},
                    },
                },
            },
        )

        routes := x402http.RoutesConfig{
            "GET /weather": {
                Accepts: x402http.PaymentOptions{{
                    Scheme:  "exact",
                    PayTo:   "0xYourAddress",
                    Price:   "$0.001",
                    Network: x402.Network("eip155:8453"),
                }},
                Description: "Get current weather data for any location",
                Extensions: map[string]interface{}{
                    types.BAZAAR: discoveryExtension,
                },
            },
        }

        r.Use(ginmw.X402Payment(ginmw.Config{
            Routes:      routes,
            Facilitator: facilitatorClient,
            Schemes: []ginmw.SchemeConfig{{
                Network: x402.Network("eip155:8453"),
                Server:  evm.NewExactEvmScheme(),
            }},
        }))

        r.GET("/weather", func(c *gin.Context) {
            location := c.DefaultQuery("location", "San Francisco")
            c.JSON(200, gin.H{
                "location":    location,
                "temperature": 70,
                "conditions":  "sunny",
                "humidity":    45,
            })
        })

        r.Run(":4021")
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Coming Soon

The x402 Bazaar is rapidly evolving, and your feedback helps us prioritize features.

### Support

* **GitHub**: [github.com/coinbase/x402](https://github.com/coinbase/x402)
* **Discord**: [Join #x402 channel](https://discord.com/invite/cdp)

### FAQ

**Q: How do I get my service listed?**
A: Add the bazaar extension to your route configuration. See the examples above.

**Q: How can I make endpoint calls more accurate?**
A: Include descriptions clearly stating what each parameter does and how to call your endpoint, but do so as succinctly as possible.

**Q: How does pricing work?**
A: Listing is free. Services set their own prices per API call, paid via x402.

**Q: What networks are supported?**
A: Currently Base (`eip155:8453`) and Base Sepolia (`eip155:84532`) with USDC payments.

**Q: Can I list non-x402 services?**
A: No, only x402-compatible endpoints can be listed. See our [Quickstart for Sellers](/getting-started/quickstart-for-sellers) to make your API x402-compatible.
